# Oathbreaker

![screenshot](https://tilde.team/~kiedtl/images/rl/apr29-release4.png)

Oathbreaker is a coffeebreak roguelike focused on stealth. You are a prisoner in
a goblin outpost, and must escape before your impending execution.

Your health is extremely limited and doesn't regenerate until you find healing
items, and most of the enemies can bring you to a quarter of your health in just
a few fights. Even the weakest of enemies can easily draw half the floor onto
you when they turn to flee and call for help, so the few fights you do end up in
have to be ended quickly and with extreme prejudice.

The main mechanic in this game is modifying and manipulating your environment in
a prison-themed dungeon to distract, confuse, and kill your former jailers. You
can sneak in unlit areas, throw poisonous potions, blow up walls, place
landmines, raise corpses, quaff speed-boosters, stab paralyzed enemies, release
fellow prisoners, and do just about anything short of engaging in what will be
an almost-certainly fatal melee combat with enemies that are simply far, far
stronger than you are.

![screenshot](https://tilde.team/~kiedtl/images/rl/apr29-release1.png)

[Here's](https://tilde.team/~kiedtl/blog/roguelike) the (very outdated) initial
writeup back when I started the project in May 2021.

*Inspecting a (wounded) lead turtle:*
![screenshot](https://tilde.team/~kiedtl/images/rl/apr29-release2.png)
![screenshot](https://tilde.team/~kiedtl/images/rl/apr29-release3.png)

*Getting into an argument with a Frozen Fiend:*
![screenshot](https://tilde.team/~kiedtl/images/rl/apr29-release5.png)

## Installation

Head over to the Releases and grab a binary (you'll want to get the SDL2 version
if you want passable graphics). Please note that macOS is not supported.

In the future there will be instructions on building from source here.

## Gameplay

See the [intro](doc/intro.md) for a quick rundown on how to play. See the
[docs](doc/README.md) for references on other bits of the game.

(Note, the manual is still being written. Feel free to contact the author at
`$GITHUB_USERNAME @ tilde |dot| team` for questions in the meantime.)

## License

The game itself is licensed under the GPL v3 license. I may be willing to
relicense certain portions if you wish to use it; contact me for details.

The game's font is derived from [Spleen](https://github.com/fcambus/spleen) by
Frederic Cambus and is licensed under the [BSD 2-clause
license](https://github.com/fcambus/spleen/blob/master/LICENSE).
